Steps to Publish to Play Store:

(Assuming you've already finished the code of your react native app and
haven't yet genreated the release apk)

1. Generate Upload Key:
 - Enter your details and set up a password, this will be the key to your app

2. Set Up Gradle Variables:
 - Allow for the release apk to be generated, ensures only the person with the 
   key's password can perform this.

3. Add signing config to your App's gradle config:
 - Allows for release builds to be signed using your upload key

4. Generate the Release APK
 - Produce an AAB (Android App Bundle) that is ready to be uploaded to google play

5. (Recommended) Test Release Build of your App

6. (Optional) Enable Proguard to reduce APK size

7. Ensure you have signed up for a Google Play developer account

8. Create new app on the Google Play Console

9. Ensure your app's AAB/APK files meet Google Play's requirements
 - Target API requirements, size requirements

10. Set Up store listing for your app
 - i.e. Features, Screenshots, Details etc

11. Publish App!

(Sources: https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/113469?hl=en
          https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/signed-apk-android)


Steps to Publish on the App Store (iOS):

(Assuming you are using Expo to develop a Create-React-Native-App)

1. Ensure you meet Launch pre-requisites:
 - Have App name, description, screenshots, version, bundleID, Developer Profile (Apple Dev ID), icons, countries available etc.

2. Set up app.json Configurations.
 - Required properties: name, slug, sdkVersion

3. Click Publish in Expo Dev Tools, or run 'expo publish' in command line, to receive code for iOS and Android focus on iOS

4. Build app: 'expo build:ios' in command line

5. (Optional) upload own distribution certificate or let Expo handle for you.

6. Once built you can download the '.ipa' file of your app!

7. Create an iOS distribution provisioning profile and distribution cerificate

8. Create an iTunes Connect record for your app

9. Select Add New App in the Connect Profile dashboard

10. Archive and upload your app (.ipa file) using XCode

11.  Configure App metadata and further details (from step 1)

12. Submit App for review

13. Check App status, if Approved your App is published.





